blog: This month in Servo (September 2024) (#187)
servo/servo.org: _posts/2024-09-30-this-month-in-servo.md

Servo’s flexbox support continues to mature, with support for **‘align-self: normal’** (@Loirooriol, #33314), plus corrections to **cross-axis percent units** in descendants (@Loirooriol, #33242), **automatic minimum sizes** (@Loirooriol, #33248, #33256), **replaced flex items** (@Loirooriol, #33263), **baseline alignment** (@mrobinson, @Loirooriol, #33347), and **absolute descendants** (@mrobinson, @Loirooriol, #33346).

Our table layout has improved, with support for **width** and **height presentational attributes** (@Loirooriol, #33405, #33425), as well as better handling of **‘border-collapse’** (@Loirooriol, #33452) and **extra &lt;col> and &lt;colgroup> columns** (@Loirooriol, #33451).

We’ve also started working on the intrinsic sizing keywords **‘min-content’**, **‘max-content’**, **‘fit-content’**, and **‘stretch’** (@Loirooriol, #33492).
Before we can support them, though, we needed to land patches to calculate intrinsic sizes, including for **percent units** (@Loirooriol, #33204), **aspect ratios** of replaced elements (@Loirooriol, #33240), **column flex containers** (@Loirooriol, #33299), and **‘white-space’** (@Loirooriol, #33343).

> We’ve heavily reworked our **WebGPU support**, with **faster canvas presentation** (@sagudev, #33387), support for **resizing the canvas** (@sagudev, #33521) and the **‘constants’ property on GPUProgrammableStage** (@sagudev, #33291), plus improvements to **GPUBuffer** (@sagudev, #33154) and the **destroy() method on GPUTexture** (@sagudev, #33534).

Author: @sagudev, is this accurate? in particular, is it accurate to say that the web-facing change in #33521 (after splitting #30479 out from #30386) is that contexts can now handle the canvas being resized? or was it also not possible to unconfigure() and reconfigure() before, or something else?

Reviewer: https://github.com/servo/servo/pull/33521 was a lot, in addition to implementing resize for canvas it also completely overhauled GPUCanvasContext to match the spec (getcurrenttexture didn't work properly before and reconfigure also didn't work properly, hence so many new good expectations). I would describe it as "reworked webgpu presentation to match the spec and properly support (re)configuration and resize".

Author: thanks, i appreciate the info :)

> We’ve heavily reworked our **WebGPU support**, with **faster canvas presentation** (@sagudev, #33387), support for **resizing the canvas** (@sagudev, #33521) and the **‘constants’ property on GPUProgrammableStage** (@sagudev, #33291), plus improvements to **GPUBuffer** (@sagudev, #33154) and the **destroy() method on GPUTexture** (@sagudev, #33534).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve also worked on our **WebGPU support**, with **faster canvas presentation** (@sagudev, #33387), **support pipeline-overridable constants** (@sagudev, #33291), completely reworked **GPUBuffer** to match the spec (@sagudev, #33154) and heavily reworked webgpu presentation to match the spec and properly support (re)configuration and resize on **GPUCanvasContext** (@sagudev, #33521).
```

Author: thanks! done in d4ed0826d05fd665103d956ac11add4ae5d487c6
